Page semi-protected

# Culture

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to navigation Jump to search

Social behavior and norms of a society

This article is about culture as used in the social sciences and humanities.
For uses in the natural sciences, see Cell culture and Tissue culture. For
other uses, see Culture (disambiguation).

Human symbolic expression developed as prehistoric humans reached behavioral
modernity.

Religion and expressive art are important aspects of human culture.

Celebrations, rituals, and festivities are important aspects of folk culture.

**Culture** (/ˈkʌltʃər/) is an umbrella term which encompasses the social
behavior and norms found in human societies, as well as the knowledge,
beliefs, arts, laws, customs, capabilities, and habits of the individuals in
these groups.[1]

Humans acquire culture through the learning processes of enculturation and
socialization, which is shown by the diversity of cultures across societies.

A cultural norm codifies acceptable conduct in society; it serves as a
guideline for behavior, dress, language, and demeanor in a situation, which
serves as a template for expectations in a social group. Accepting only a
monoculture in a social group can bear risks, just as a single species can
wither in the face of environmental change, for lack of functional responses
to the change.[2] Thus in military culture, valor is counted a typical
behavior for an individual and duty, honor, and loyalty to the social group
are counted as virtues or functional responses in the continuum of conflict.
In the practice of religion, analogous attributes can be identified in a
social group.

## Contents

  * 1 Description
  * 2 Etymology
  * 3 Change
  * 4 Early modern discourses
    * 4.1 German Romanticism
    * 4.2 English Romanticism
  * 5 Anthropology
  * 6 Sociology
    * 6.1 Early researchers and development of cultural sociology
  * 7 Cultural studies
  * 8 Psychology
  * 9 Protection of culture
  * 10 See also
  * 11 References
  * 12 Further reading
    * 12.1 Books
    * 12.2 Articles
  * 13 External links

## Description

The Fulani traditional marriage requirements which is flogging of the Groom

Culture is considered a central concept in anthropology, encompassing the
range of phenomena that are transmitted through social learning in human
societies. Cultural universals are found in all human societies. These include
expressive forms like art, music, dance, ritual, religion, and technologies
like tool usage, cooking, shelter, and clothing. The concept of material
culture covers the physical expressions of culture, such as technology,
architecture and art, whereas the immaterial aspects of culture such as
principles of social organization (including practices of political
organization and social institutions), mythology, philosophy, literature (both
written and oral), and science comprise the intangible cultural heritage of a
society.[3]

In the humanities, one sense of culture as an attribute of the individual has
been the degree to which they have cultivated a particular level of
sophistication in the arts, sciences, education, or manners. The level of
cultural sophistication has also sometimes been used to distinguish
civilizations from less complex societies. Such hierarchical perspectives on
culture are also found in class-based distinctions between a high culture of
the social elite and a low culture, popular culture, or folk culture of the
lower classes, distinguished by the stratified access to cultural capital. In
common parlance, culture is often used to refer specifically to the symbolic
markers used by ethnic groups to distinguish themselves visibly from each
other such as body modification, clothing or jewelry. Mass culture refers to
the mass-produced and mass mediated forms of consumer culture that emerged in
the 20th century. Some schools of philosophy, such as Marxism and critical
theory, have argued that culture is often used politically as a tool of the
elites to manipulate the proletariat and create a false consciousness. Such
perspectives are common in the discipline of cultural studies. In the wider
social sciences, the theoretical perspective of cultural materialism holds
that human symbolic culture arises from the material conditions of human life,
as humans create the conditions for physical survival, and that the basis of
culture is found in evolved biological dispositions.

When used as a count noun, a "culture" is the set of customs, traditions, and
values of a society or community, such as an ethnic group or nation. Culture
is the set of knowledge acquired over time. In this sense, multiculturalism
values the peaceful coexistence and mutual respect between different cultures
inhabiting the same planet. Sometimes "culture" is also used to describe
specific practices within a subgroup of a society, a subculture (e.g. "bro
culture"), or a counterculture. Within cultural anthropology, the ideology and
analytical stance of cultural relativism hold that cultures cannot easily be
objectively ranked or evaluated because any evaluation is necessarily situated
within the value system of a given culture.

## Etymology

The modern term "culture" is based on a term used by the ancient Roman orator
Cicero in his _Tusculanae Disputationes_ , where he wrote of a cultivation of
the soul or _"cultura animi,"_[4] using an agricultural metaphor for the
development of a philosophical soul, understood teleologically as the highest
possible ideal for human development. Samuel Pufendorf took over this metaphor
in a modern context, meaning something similar, but no longer assuming that
philosophy was man's natural perfection. His use, and that of many writers
after him, " _refers to all the ways in which human beings overcome their
originalbarbarism, and through artifice, become fully human."_[5]

In 1986, philosopher Edward S. Casey wrote, "The very word _culture_ meant
'place tilled' in Middle English, and the same word goes back to Latin
_colere_ , 'to inhabit, care for, till, worship' and _cultus_ , 'A cult,
especially a religious one.' To be cultural, to have a culture, is to inhabit
a place sufficiently intensely to cultivate it—to be responsible for it, to
respond to it, to attend to it caringly."[6]

Culture described by Richard Velkley:[5]

> ... originally meant the cultivation of the soul or mind, acquires most of
> its later modern meaning in the writings of the 18th-century German
> thinkers, who were on various levels developing Rousseau's criticism of
> "modern liberalism and Enlightenment." Thus a contrast between "culture" and
> "civilization" is usually implied in these authors, even when not expressed
> as such.

In the words of anthropologist E.B. Tylor, it is "that complex whole which
includes knowledge, belief, art, morals, law, custom and any other
capabilities and habits acquired by man as a member of society."[7]
Alternatively, in a contemporary variant, "Culture is defined as a social
domain that emphasizes the practices, discourses and material expressions,
which, over time, express the continuities and discontinuities of social
meaning of a life held in common.[8]

The _Cambridge English Dictionary_ states that culture is "the way of life,
especially the general customs and beliefs, of a particular group of people at
a particular time."[9] Terror management theory posits that culture is a
series of activities and worldviews that provide humans with the basis for
perceiving themselves as "person[s] of worth within the world of
meaning"—raising themselves above the merely physical aspects of existence, in
order to deny the animal insignificance and death that _Homo sapiens_ became
aware of when they acquired a larger brain.[10][11]

The word is used in a general sense as the evolved ability to categorize and
represent experiences with symbols and to act imaginatively and creatively.
This ability arose with the evolution of behavioral modernity in humans around
50,000 years ago and is often thought to be unique to humans. However, some
other species have demonstrated similar, though much less complicated,
abilities for social learning. It is also used to denote the complex networks
of practices and accumulated knowledge and ideas that are transmitted through
social interaction and exist in specific human groups, or cultures, using the
plural form.

## Change

Main article: Culture change

The Beatles exemplified changing cultural dynamics, not only in music, but
fashion and lifestyle. Over a half century after their emergence, they
continue to have a worldwide cultural impact.

It has been estimated from archaeological data that the human capacity for
cumulative culture emerged somewhere between 500,000–170,000 years ago.[12]

Raimon Panikkar identified 29 ways in which cultural change can be brought
about, including growth, development, evolution, involution, renovation,
reconception, reform, innovation, revivalism, revolution, mutation, progress,
diffusion, osmosis, borrowing, eclecticism, syncretism, modernization,
indigenization, and transformation.[13] In this context, modernization could
be viewed as adoption of Enlightenment era beliefs and practices, such as
science, rationalism, industry, commerce, democracy, and the notion of
progress. Rein Raud, building on the work of Umberto Eco, Pierre Bourdieu and
Jeffrey C. Alexander, has proposed a model of cultural change based on claims
and bids, which are judged by their cognitive adequacy and endorsed or not
endorsed by the symbolic authority of the cultural community in question.[14]

A 19th-century engraving showing Australian natives opposing the arrival of
Captain James Cook in 1770

An Assyrian child wearing traditional clothing.

Cultural invention has come to mean any innovation that is new and found to be
useful to a group of people and expressed in their behavior but which does not
exist as a physical object. Humanity is in a global "accelerating culture
change period," driven by the expansion of international commerce, the mass
media, and above all, the human population explosion, among other factors.
Culture repositioning means the reconstruction of the cultural concept of a
society.[15]

Full-length profile portrait of a Turkmen woman, standing on a carpet at the
entrance to a yurt, dressed in traditional clothing and jewelry

Cultures are internally affected by both forces encouraging change and forces
resisting change. These forces are related to both social structures and
natural events, and are involved in the perpetuation of cultural ideas and
practices within current structures, which themselves are subject to
change.[16]

Social conflict and the development of technologies can produce changes within
a society by altering social dynamics and promoting new cultural models, and
spurring or enabling generative action. These social shifts may accompany
ideological shifts and other types of cultural change. For example, the U.S.
feminist movement involved new practices that produced a shift in gender
relations, altering both gender and economic structures. Environmental
conditions may also enter as factors. For example, after tropical forests
returned at the end of the last ice age, plants suitable for domestication
were available, leading to the invention of agriculture, which in turn brought
about many cultural innovations and shifts in social dynamics.[17]

Cultures are externally affected via contact between societies, which may also
produce—or inhibit—social shifts and changes in cultural practices. War or
competition over resources may impact technological development or social
dynamics. Additionally, cultural ideas may transfer from one society to
another, through diffusion or acculturation. In diffusion, the form of
something (though not necessarily its meaning) moves from one culture to
another. For example, Western restaurant chains and culinary brands sparked
curiosity and fascination to the Chinese as China opened its economy to
international trade in the late 20th-century.[18] "Stimulus diffusion" (the
sharing of ideas) refers to an element of one culture leading to an invention
or propagation in another. "Direct borrowing," on the other hand, tends to
refer to technological or tangible diffusion from one culture to another.
Diffusion of innovations theory presents a research-based model of why and
when individuals and cultures adopt new ideas, practices, and products.

Acculturation has different meanings. Still, in this context, it refers to the
replacement of traits of one culture with another, such as what happened to
certain Native American tribes and many indigenous peoples across the globe
during the process of colonization. Related processes on an individual level
include assimilation (adoption of a different culture by an individual) and
transculturation. The transnational flow of culture has played a major role in
merging different cultures and sharing thoughts, ideas, and beliefs.

## Early modern discourses

### German Romanticism

Johann Herder called attention to national cultures.

Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) formulated an individualist definition of
"enlightenment" similar to the concept of _bildung_ : "Enlightenment is man's
emergence from his self-incurred immaturity."[19] He argued that this
immaturity comes not from a lack of understanding, but from a lack of courage
to think independently. Against this intellectual cowardice, Kant urged:
_Sapere Aude_ , "Dare to be wise!" In reaction to Kant, German scholars such
as Johann Gottfried Herder (1744–1803) argued that human creativity, which
necessarily takes unpredictable and highly diverse forms, is as important as
human rationality. Moreover, Herder proposed a collective form of _Bildung_ :
"For Herder, Bildung was the totality of experiences that provide a coherent
identity, and sense of common destiny, to a people."[20]

Adolf Bastian developed a universal model of culture.

In 1795, the Prussian linguist and philosopher Wilhelm von Humboldt
(1767–1835) called for an anthropology that would synthesize Kant's and
Herder's interests. During the Romantic era, scholars in Germany, especially
those concerned with nationalist movements—such as the nationalist struggle to
create a "Germany" out of diverse principalities, and the nationalist
struggles by ethnic minorities against the Austro-Hungarian Empire—developed a
more inclusive notion of culture as "worldview" ( _Weltanschauung_ ).[21]
According to this school of thought, each ethnic group has a distinct
worldview that is incommensurable with the worldviews of other groups.
Although more inclusive than earlier views, this approach to culture still
allowed for distinctions between "civilized" and "primitive" or "tribal"
cultures.

In 1860, Adolf Bastian (1826–1905) argued for "the psychic unity of
mankind."[22] He proposed that a scientific comparison of all human societies
would reveal that distinct worldviews consisted of the same basic elements.
According to Bastian, all human societies share a set of "elementary ideas" (
_Elementargedanken_ ); different cultures, or different "folk ideas" (
_Völkergedanken_ ), are local modifications of the elementary ideas.[23] This
view paved the way for the modern understanding of culture. Franz Boas
(1858–1942) was trained in this tradition, and he brought it with him when he
left Germany for the United States.[24]

### English Romanticism

British poet and critic Matthew Arnold viewed "culture" as the cultivation of
the humanist ideal.

In the 19th century, humanists such as English poet and essayist Matthew
Arnold (1822–1888) used the word "culture" to refer to an ideal of individual
human refinement, of "the best that has been thought and said in the
world."[25] This concept of culture is also comparable to the German concept
of _bildung_ : "...culture being a pursuit of our total perfection by means of
getting to know, on all the matters which most concern us, the best which has
been thought and said in the world."[25]

In practice, _culture_ referred to an elite ideal and was associated with such
activities as art, classical music, and haute cuisine.[26] As these forms were
associated with urban life, "culture" was identified with "civilization" (from
lat. _civitas_ , city). Another facet of the Romantic movement was an interest
in folklore, which led to identifying a "culture" among non-elites. This
distinction is often characterized as that between high culture, namely that
of the ruling social group, and low culture. In other words, the idea of
"culture" that developed in Europe during the 18th and early 19th centuries
reflected inequalities within European societies.[27]

British anthropologist Edward Tylor was one of the first English-speaking
scholars to use the term culture in an inclusive and universal sense.

Matthew Arnold contrasted "culture" with anarchy; other Europeans, following
philosophers Thomas Hobbes and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, contrasted "culture"
with "the state of nature." According to Hobbes and Rousseau, the Native
Americans who were being conquered by Europeans from the 16th centuries on
were living in a state of nature[ _citation needed_ ]; this opposition was
expressed through the contrast between "civilized" and "uncivilized."
According to this way of thinking, one could classify some countries and
nations as more civilized than others and some people as more cultured than
others. This contrast led to Herbert Spencer's theory of Social Darwinism and
Lewis Henry Morgan's theory of cultural evolution. Just as some critics have
argued that the distinction between high and low cultures is an expression of
the conflict between European elites and non-elites, other critics have argued
that the distinction between civilized and uncivilized people is an expression
of the conflict between European colonial powers and their colonial subjects.

Other 19th-century critics, following Rousseau, have accepted this
differentiation between higher and lower culture, but have seen the refinement
and sophistication of high culture as corrupting and unnatural developments
that obscure and distort people's essential nature. These critics considered
folk music (as produced by "the folk," i.e., rural, illiterate, peasants) to
honestly express a natural way of life, while classical music seemed
superficial and decadent. Equally, this view often portrayed indigenous
peoples as "noble savages" living authentic and unblemished lives,
uncomplicated and uncorrupted by the highly stratified capitalist systems of
the West.

In 1870 the anthropologist Edward Tylor (1832–1917) applied these ideas of
higher versus lower culture to propose a theory of the evolution of religion.
According to this theory, religion evolves from more polytheistic to more
monotheistic forms.[28] In the process, he redefined culture as a diverse set
of activities characteristic of all human societies. This view paved the way
for the modern understanding of religion.

## Anthropology

Petroglyphs in modern-day Gobustan, Azerbaijan, dating back to 10,000 BCE and
indicating a thriving culture

Main article: American anthropology

Although anthropologists worldwide refer to Tylor's definition of culture,[29]
in the 20th century "culture" emerged as the central and unifying concept of
American anthropology, where it most commonly refers to the universal human
capacity to classify and encode human experiences symbolically, and to
communicate symbolically encoded experiences socially.[ _citation needed_ ]
American anthropology is organized into four fields, each of which plays an
important role in research on culture: biological anthropology, linguistic
anthropology, cultural anthropology, and in the United States,
archaeology.[30][31][32][33] The term _Kulturbrille_ , or "culture glasses,"
coined by German American anthropologist Franz Boas, refers to the "lenses"
through which we see our own countries. Martin Lindstrom asserts that
_Kulturbrille_ , which allow us to make sense of the culture we inhabit, also
"can blind us to things outsiders pick up immediately."[34]

## Sociology

Main article: Sociology of culture

An example of folkloric dancing in Colombia.

The sociology of culture concerns culture as manifested in society. For
sociologist Georg Simmel (1858–1918), culture referred to "the cultivation of
individuals through the agency of external forms which have been objectified
in the course of history."[35] As such, culture in the sociological field can
be defined as the ways of thinking, the ways of acting, and the material
objects that together shape a people's way of life. Culture can be any of two
types, non-material culture or material culture.[3] Non-material culture
refers to the non-physical ideas that individuals have about their culture,
including values, belief systems, rules, norms, morals, language,
organizations, and institutions, while material culture is the physical
evidence of a culture in the objects and architecture they make or have made.
The term tends to be relevant only in archeological and anthropological
studies, but it specifically means all material evidence which can be
attributed to culture, past or present.

Cultural sociology first emerged in Weimar Germany (1918–1933), where
sociologists such as Alfred Weber used the term _Kultursoziologie_ (cultural
sociology). Cultural sociology was then "reinvented" in the English-speaking
world as a product of the "cultural turn" of the 1960s, which ushered in
structuralist and postmodern approaches to social science. This type of
cultural sociology may be loosely regarded as an approach incorporating
cultural analysis and critical theory. Cultural sociologists tend to reject
scientific methods, instead hermeneutically focusing on words, artifacts and
symbols.[36] "Culture" has since become an important concept across many
branches of sociology, including resolutely scientific fields like social
stratification and social network analysis. As a result, there has been a
recent influx of quantitative sociologists to the field. Thus, there is now a
growing group of sociologists of culture who are, confusingly, not cultural
sociologists. These scholars reject the abstracted postmodern aspects of
cultural sociology, and instead, look for a theoretical backing in the more
scientific vein of social psychology and cognitive science.[ _citation needed_
]

nowruz is a good sample of Popular and Folklore culture that is celebrating by
people in more than 22 countries with different nations and religions, at the
1st day of spring. It has been celebrated by diverse communities for over
7,000 years

### Early researchers and development of cultural sociology

The sociology of culture grew from the intersection between sociology (as
shaped by early theorists like Marx,[37] Durkheim, and Weber) with the growing
discipline of anthropology, wherein researchers pioneered ethnographic
strategies for describing and analyzing a variety of cultures around the
world. Part of the legacy of the early development of the field lingers in the
methods (much of cultural, sociological research is qualitative), in the
theories (a variety of critical approaches to sociology are central to current
research communities), and in the substantive focus of the field. For
instance, relationships between popular culture, political control, and social
class were early and lasting concerns in the field.

## Cultural studies

Main article: Cultural studies

In the United Kingdom, sociologists and other scholars influenced by Marxism
such as Stuart Hall (1932–2014) and Raymond Williams (1921–1988) developed
cultural studies. Following nineteenth-century Romantics, they identified
"culture" with consumption goods and leisure activities (such as art, music,
film, food, sports, and clothing). They saw patterns of consumption and
leisure as determined by relations of production, which led them to focus on
class relations and the organization of production.[38][39]

The Metropolitan Museum of Art in Manhattan. Visual art is one expression of
culture.

In the United States, cultural studies focuses largely on the study of popular
culture; that is, on the social meanings of mass-produced consumer and leisure
goods. Richard Hoggart coined the term in 1964 when he founded the Birmingham
Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies or CCCS.[40] It has since become
strongly associated with Stuart Hall,[41] who succeeded Hoggart as
Director.[42] Cultural studies in this sense, then, can be viewed as a limited
concentration scoped on the intricacies of consumerism, which belongs to a
wider culture sometimes referred to as "Western civilization" or "globalism."

From the 1970s onward, Stuart Hall's pioneering work, along with that of his
colleagues Paul Willis, Dick Hebdige, Tony Jefferson, and Angela McRobbie,
created an international intellectual movement. As the field developed, it
began to combine political economy, communication, sociology, social theory,
literary theory, media theory, film/video studies, cultural anthropology,
philosophy, museum studies, and art history to study cultural phenomena or
cultural texts. In this field researchers often concentrate on how particular
phenomena relate to matters of ideology, nationality, ethnicity, social class,
and/or gender.[43] Cultural studies is concerned with the meaning and
practices of everyday life. These practices comprise the ways people do
particular things (such as watching television or eating out) in a given
culture. It also studies the meanings and uses people attribute to various
objects and practices. Specifically, culture involves those meanings and
practices held independently of reason. Watching television to view a public
perspective on a historical event should not be thought of as culture unless
referring to the medium of television itself, which may have been selected
culturally; however, schoolchildren watching television after school with
their friends to "fit in" certainly qualifies since there is no grounded
reason for one's participation in this practice.

In the context of cultural studies, the idea of a _text_ includes not only
written language, but also films, photographs, fashion or hairstyles: the
texts of cultural studies comprise all the meaningful artifacts of
culture.[44] Similarly, the discipline widens the concept of "culture."
"Culture" for a cultural-studies researcher not only includes traditional high
culture (the culture of ruling social groups)[45] and popular culture, but
also everyday meanings and practices. The last two, in fact, have become the
main focus of cultural studies. A further and recent approach is comparative
cultural studies, based on the disciplines of comparative literature and
cultural studies.[46]

Scholars in the United Kingdom and the United States developed somewhat
different versions of cultural studies after the late 1970s. The British
version of cultural studies had originated in the 1950s and 1960s, mainly
under the influence of Richard Hoggart, E.P. Thompson, and Raymond Williams,
and later that of Stuart Hall and others at the Centre for Contemporary
Cultural Studies at the University of Birmingham. This included overtly
political, left-wing views, and criticisms of popular culture as "capitalist"
mass culture; it absorbed some of the ideas of the Frankfurt School critique
of the "culture industry" (i.e. mass culture). This emerges in the writings of
early British cultural-studies scholars and their influences: see the work of
(for example) Raymond Williams, Stuart Hall, Paul Willis, and Paul Gilroy.

In the United States, Lindlof and Taylor write, "Cultural studies [were]
grounded in a pragmatic, liberal-pluralist tradition."[47] The American
version of cultural studies initially concerned itself more with understanding
the subjective and appropriative side of audience reactions to, and uses of,
mass culture; for example, American cultural-studies advocates wrote about the
liberatory aspects of fandom.[ _citation needed_ ] The distinction between
American and British strands, however, has faded.[ _citation needed_ ] Some
researchers, especially in early British cultural studies, apply a Marxist
model to the field. This strain of thinking has some influence from the
Frankfurt School, but especially from the structuralist Marxism of Louis
Althusser and others. The main focus of an orthodox Marxist approach
concentrates on the _production_ of meaning. This model assumes a mass
production of culture and identifies power as residing with those producing
cultural artifacts. In a Marxist view, the mode and relations of production
form the economic base of society, which constantly interacts and influences
superstructures, such as culture.[48] Other approaches to cultural studies,
such as feminist cultural studies and later American developments of the
field, distance themselves from this view. They criticize the Marxist
assumption of a single, dominant meaning, shared by all, for any cultural
product. The non-Marxist approaches suggest that different ways of consuming
cultural artifacts affect the meaning of the product. This view comes through
in the book _Doing Cultural Studies: The Story of the Sony Walkman_ (by Paul
du Gay _et al._ ),[49] which seeks to challenge the notion that those who
produce commodities control the meanings that people attribute to them.
Feminist cultural analyst, theorist, and art historian Griselda Pollock
contributed to cultural studies from viewpoints of art history and
psychoanalysis. The writer Julia Kristeva is among influential voices at the
turn of the century, contributing to cultural studies from the field of art
and psychoanalytical French feminism.[50]

Petrakis and Kostis (2013) divide cultural background variables into two main
groups:[51]

  1. The first group covers the variables that represent the "efficiency orientation" of the societies: performance orientation, future orientation, assertiveness, power distance, and uncertainty avoidance.
  2. The second covers the variables that represent the "social orientation" of societies, i.e., the attitudes and lifestyles of their members. These variables include gender egalitarianism, institutional collectivism, in-group collectivism, and human orientation.

In 2016, a new approach to culture was suggested by Rein Raud,[14] who defines
culture as the sum of resources available to human beings for making sense of
their world and proposes a two-tiered approach, combining the study of texts
(all reified meanings in circulation) and cultural practices (all repeatable
actions that involve the production, dissemination or transmission of
purposes), thus making it possible to re-link anthropological and sociological
study of culture with the tradition of textual theory.

## Psychology

See also: Social psychology, Cultural psychology, and Cross-cultural
psychology

Cognitive tools suggest a way for people from certain culture to deal with
real-life problems, like _Suanpan_ for Chinese to perform mathematical
calculation

Starting in the 1990s,[52]:31 psychological research on culture influence
began to grow and challenge the universality assumed in general
psychology.[53]:158–168[54] Culture psychologists began to try to explore the
relationship between emotions and culture, and answer whether the human mind
is independent from culture. For example, people from collectivistic cultures,
such as the Japanese, suppress their positive emotions more than their
American counterparts.[55] Culture may affect the way that people experience
and express emotions. On the other hand, some researchers try to look for
differences between people's personalities across cultures.[56][57] As
different cultures dictate distinctive norms, culture shock is also studied to
understand how people react when they are confronted with other cultures.
Cognitive tools may not be accessible or they may function differently cross
culture.[52]:19 For example, people that are raised in a culture with an
abacus are trained with distinctive reasoning style.[58] Cultural lenses may
also make people view the same outcome of events differently. Westerners are
more motivated by their successes than their failures, while East Asians are
better motivated by the avoidance of failure.[59] Culture is important for
psychologists to consider when understanding the human mental operation.

## Protection of culture

There are a number of international agreements and national laws relating to
the protection of culture and cultural heritage. UNESCO and its partner
organizations such as Blue Shield International coordinate international
protection and local implementation.[60][61]

A fact finding mission by Blue Shield International in Egypt during the civil
war in 2011 to protect the cultural assets there.

Basically, the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the
Event of Armed Conflict and the UNESCO Convention for the Protection of
Cultural Diversity deal with the protection of culture. Article 27 of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights deals with cultural heritage in two
ways: it gives people the right to participate in cultural life on the one
hand and the right to the protection of their contributions to cultural life
on the other.[62]

The protection of culture and cultural goods is increasingly taking up a large
area nationally and internationally. Under international law, the UN and
UNESCO try to set up and enforce rules for this. The aim is not to protect a
person's property, but rather to preserve the cultural heritage of humanity,
especially in the event of war and armed conflict. According to Karl von
Habsburg, President of Blue Shield International, the destruction of cultural
assets is also part of psychological warfare. The target of the attack is the
identity of the opponent, which is why symbolic cultural assets become a main
target. It is also intended to affect the particularly sensitive cultural
memory, the growing cultural diversity and the economic basis (such as
tourism) of a state, region or municipality.[63][64][65]

Another important issue today is the impact of tourism on the various forms of
culture. On the one hand, this can be physical impact on individual objects or
the destruction caused by increasing environmental pollution and, on the other
hand, socio-cultural effects on society.[66][67][68]

## See also

  * iconSociety portal

  * Animal culture
  * Anthropology
  * Cultural area
  * Cultural studies
  * Cultural tourism
  * Culture 21 – United Nations plan of action
  * Honour § Cultures of honour and cultures of law
  * Outline of culture
  * Recombinant culture
  * Semiotics of culture
  * 

## References

  1. **^** Tylor, Edward. (1871). Primitive Culture. Vol 1. New York: J.P. Putnam's Son
  2. **^** Jackson, Y. Encyclopedia of Multicultural Psychology, p. 203
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Macionis, John J; Gerber, Linda Marie (2011). _Sociology_. Toronto: Pearson Prentice Hall. p. 53\. ISBN 978-0-13-700161-3. OCLC 652430995.
  4. **^** Cicéron, Marcus Tullius Cicero; Bouhier, Jean (1812). _Tusculanes_ (in French). Nismes: J. Gaude. p. 273\. OCLC 457735057.
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Velkley, Richard L (2002). "The Tension in the Beautiful: On Culture and Civilization in Rousseau and German Philosophy". _Being after Rousseau: philosophy and culture in question_. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. pp. 11–30. ISBN 978-0-226-85256-0. OCLC 47930775.
  6. **^** Sorrells, Kathryn (2015). _Intercultural Communication: Globalization and Social Justice_. Los Angeles: Sage. ISBN 978-1-4129-2744-4.[ _page needed_]
  7. **^** Tylor 1974, 1.
  8. **^** James, Paul; Magee, Liam; Scerri, Andy; Steger, Manfred (2015). _Urban Sustainability in Theory and Practice: Circles of Sustainability_. London: Routledge. p. 53\. ISBN 978-1-138-02572-1. OCLC 942553107. Archived from the original on June 26, 2017. Retrieved May 29, 2017.
  9. **^** "Meaning of "culture"". _Cambridge English Dictionary_. Archived from the original on August 15, 2015. Retrieved July 26, 2015.
  10. **^** Pyszczynski, Tom; Solomon, Sheldon; Greenberg, Jeff (2015). _Thirty Years of Terror Management Theory_. Advances in Experimental Social Psychology. **52**. pp. 1–70. doi:10.1016/bs.aesp.2015.03.001. ISBN 978-0-12-802247-4.
  11. **^** Greenberg, Jeff; Koole, Sander L.; Pyszczynski, Tom (2013). _Handbook of Experimental Existential Psychology_. Guilford Publications. ISBN 978-1-4625-1479-3.
  12. **^** Lind, J.; Lindenfors, P.; Ghirlanda, S.; Lidén, K.; Enquist, M. (May 7, 2013). "Dating human cultural capacity using phylogenetic principles". _Scientific Reports_. **3** (1): 1785. Bibcode:2013NatSR...3E1785L. doi:10.1038/srep01785. ISSN 2045-2322. PMC 3646280. PMID 23648831.
  13. **^** Panikkar, Raimon (1991). Pathil, Kuncheria (ed.). _Religious Pluralism: An Indian Christian Perspective_. ISPCK. pp. 252–99. ISBN 978-81-7214-005-2. OCLC 25410539.
  14. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rein, Raud (August 29, 2016). _Meaning in Action: Outline of an Integral Theory of Culture_. Cambridge: Polity. ISBN 978-1-5095-1124-2. OCLC 944339574.
  15. **^** Chigbu, Uchendu Eugene (July 3, 2015). "Repositioning culture for development: women and development in a Nigerian rural community". _Community, Work & Family_. **18** (3): 334–50. doi:10.1080/13668803.2014.981506. ISSN 1366-8803. S2CID 144448501.
  16. **^** O'Neil, Dennis (2006). "Culture Change: Processes of Change". _Culture Change_. Palomar College. Archived from the original on October 27, 2016. Retrieved October 29, 2016.
  17. **^** Pringle, Heather (November 20, 1998). "The Slow Birth of Agriculture". _Science_. **282** (5393): 1446. doi:10.1126/science.282.5393.1446. ISSN 0036-8075. S2CID 128522781.
  18. **^** Wei, Clarissa (March 20, 2018). "Why China Loves American Chain Restaurants So Much". _Eater_. Retrieved September 29, 2019.
  19. **^** Kant, Immanuel. 1784. "Answering the Question: What is Enlightenment?" (German: "Beantwortung der Frage: Was ist Aufklärung?") _Berlinische Monatsschrift_ , December (Berlin Monthly)
  20. **^** Eldridge, Michael. "The German Bildung Tradition". UNC Charlotte. Archived from the original on January 23, 2009. Retrieved May 29, 2017.
  21. **^** Underhill, James W. (2009). _Humboldt, Worldview, and Language_. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
  22. **^** Köpping, Klaus-Peter (2005). _Adolf Bastian and the psychic unity of mankind_. Lit Verlag. ISBN 978-3-8258-3989-5. OCLC 977343058.
  23. **^** Ellis, Ian. "Biography of Adolf Bastian, ethnologist". _Today in Science History_. Archived from the original on August 6, 2017. Retrieved May 29, 2017.
  24. **^** Liron, Tal (2003). _Franz Boas and the discovery of culture_ (PDF) (Thesis). OCLC 52888196. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 2, 2017. Retrieved October 30, 2016.
  25. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Arnold, Matthew (1869). "Culture and Anarchy". Archived from the original on January 6, 2017. Retrieved May 29, 2017.
  26. **^** Williams (1983), p. 90. Cited in Roy, Shuker (1997). _Understanding popular music_. Routledge. p. 5. ISBN 978-0-415-10723-5. OCLC 245910934. argues that contemporary definitions of culture fall into three possibilities or mixture of the following three: 
    * "a general process of intellectual, spiritual, and aesthetic development."
    * "a particular way of life, whether of a people, period or a group."
    * "the works and practices of intellectual and especially artistic activity."
  27. **^** Bakhtin 1981, p. 4
  28. **^** McClenon, pp. 528–29
  29. **^** Angioni, Giulio (1973). _Tre saggi sull'antropologia dell'età coloniale_. OCLC 641869481.
  30. **^** "anthropology". _Oxford Dictionaries UK Dictionary_. Oxford University Press. Retrieved October 30, 2016.
  31. **^** Fernandez, James W.; Hanchett, Suzanne L.; Jeganathan, Pradeep; Nicholas, Ralph W.; Robotham, Donald Keith; Smith, Eric A. (August 31, 2015). "anthropology | Britannica.com". _Britannica.com_. Encyclopedia Britannica. Archived from the original on October 30, 2016. Retrieved October 30, 2016.
  32. **^** "What is Anthropology? – Advance Your Career". American Anthropological Association. Archived from the original on October 26, 2016. Retrieved October 30, 2016.
  33. **^** Haviland, William A.; McBride, Bunny; Prins, Harald E.L.; Walrath, Dana (2011). _Cultural Anthropology: The Human Challenge_. Wadsworth/Cengage Learning. ISBN 978-0-495-81082-7. OCLC 731048150.
  34. **^** Lindström, Martin (2016). _Small data : the tiny clues that uncover huge trends_. London: St. Martin's Press. ISBN 978-1-250-08068-4. OCLC 921994909.
  35. **^** Simmel, Georg (1971). Levine, Donald N (ed.). _Georg Simmel on individuality and social forms: selected writings_. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. p. xix. ISBN 978-0-226-75776-6. Archived from the original on September 12, 2017. Retrieved May 29, 2017.
  36. **^** Sokal, Alan D. (June 5, 1996). "A Physicist Experiments with Cultural Studies". _Lingua Franca_. Archived from the original on March 26, 2007. Retrieved October 28, 2016. Physicist Alan Sokal published a paper in a journal of cultural sociology stating that gravity was a social construct that should be examined hermeneutically. See Sokal affair for further details.
  37. **^** Berlin, Isaiah; Ryan, Alan (2002). _Karl Marx: His Life and Environment_. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 130. ISBN 978-0-19-510326-7. OCLC 611127754.
  38. **^** Williams, Raymond (1983). "Keywords: A Vocabulary of Culture and Society". New York: Oxford University Press: 87–93, 236–38. OCLC 906396817. Cite journal requires `|journal=` (help)
  39. **^** Berger, John (1972). _Ways of seeing_. Peter Smithn. ISBN 978-0-563-12244-9. OCLC 780459348.
  40. **^** "Studying Culture – Reflections and Assessment: An Interview with Richard Hoggart". _Media, Culture & Society_. **13**.
  41. **^** Adams, Tim (September 23, 2007). "Cultural hallmark". _The Guardian_. ISSN 0261-3077. Archived from the original on October 31, 2016. Retrieved October 30, 2016.
  42. **^** James, Procter (2004). _Stuart Hall_. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-26267-5. OCLC 318376213.
  43. **^** Sardar, Ziauddin; Van Loon, Borin; Appignanesi, Richard (1994). _Introducing Cultural Studies_. New York: Totem Books. ISBN 978-1-84046-587-7. OCLC 937991291.
  44. **^** Fiske, John; Turner, Graeme; Hodge, Robert Ian Vere (1987). _Myths of Oz: reading Australian popular culture_. London: Allen and Unwin. ISBN 978-0-04-330391-7. OCLC 883364628.
  45. **^** Bakhtin, Mikhail Mikhaĭlovich; Holquist, Michael (1981). _The dialogic imagination four essays_. Austin: University of Texas Press. p. 4\. OCLC 872436352.
  46. **^** "Comparative Cultural Studies". _Purdue University Press_. 2015. Archived from the original on August 5, 2012. Retrieved October 30, 2016.
  47. **^** Lindlof, Thomas R; Taylor, Bryan C (2002). _Qualitative Communication Research Methods_ (2nd ed.). Sage. p. 60. ISBN 978-0-7619-2493-7. OCLC 780825710.
  48. **^** Gonick, Cy (February 7, 2006). "Marxism". _The Canadian Encyclopedia_. Historica Canada. Retrieved October 7, 2019.
  49. **^** du Gay, Paul, ed. (1997). _Doing Cultural Studies: The Story of the Sony Walkman_. Sage. ISBN 978-0-7619-5402-6. OCLC 949857570.
  50. **^** MacKenzie, Gina (August 21, 2018). "Julia Kristeva". _Oxford Bibliographies_. Oxford University Press. Retrieved September 29, 2019.
  51. **^** Petrakis, Panagiotis; Kostis, Pantelis (December 1, 2013). "Economic growth and cultural change". _The Journal of Socio-Economics_. **47** : 147–57. doi:10.1016/j.socec.2013.02.011.
  52. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Heine, Steven J. (2015). _Cultural psychology_. _Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews. Cognitive Science_. **1** (Third ed.). New York, NY. pp. 254–266. doi:10.1002/wcs.7. ISBN 9780393263985. OCLC 911004797. PMID 26271239.
  53. **^** Myers, David G. (2010). _Social psychology_ (Tenth ed.). New York, NY. ISBN 9780073370668. OCLC 667213323.
  54. **^** Norenzayan, Ara; Heine, Steven J. (September 2005). "Psychological universals: what are they and how can we know?". _Psychological Bulletin_. **131** (5): 763–784. doi:10.1037/0033-2909.131.5.763. ISSN 0033-2909. PMID 16187859.
  55. **^** Miyahara, Akira. "Toward Theorizing Japanese Communication Competence from a Non-Western Perspective". _American Communication Journal_. **3** (3).
  56. **^** McCrae, R. R., Costa, P. T., de Lima, M. P., Simões, A., Ostendorf, F., Angleitner, A., Marušić, I., Bratko, D., Caprara, G. V., Barbaranelli, C., Chae, J. & Piedmont, R. L. (March 1999). "Age differences in personality across the adult life span: Parallels in five cultures". _Developmental Psychology_. **35** (2): 466–477. doi:10.1037/0012-1649.35.2.466. PMID 10082017.CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
  57. **^** Cheung, F. M.; Leung, K.; Fan, R. M.; Song, W.S.; Zhang, J. X.; Zhang, H. P. (March 1996). "Development of the Chinese Personality Assessment Inventory". _Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology_. **27** (2): 181–199. doi:10.1177/0022022196272003. S2CID 145134209.
  58. **^** Baillargeon, Rene (2002), "The Acquisition of Physical Knowledge in Infancy: A Summary in Eight Lessons", _Blackwell Handbook of Childhood Cognitive Development_ , Blackwell Publishers Ltd, pp. 47–83, doi:10.1002/9780470996652.ch3, ISBN 9780470996652
  59. **^** Heine, Steven J.; Kitayama, Shinobu; Lehman, Darrin R. (2001). "Cultural Differences in Self-Evaluation". _Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology_. **32** (4): 434–443. doi:10.1177/0022022101032004004. ISSN 0022-0221. S2CID 40475406.
  60. **^** Roger O’Keefe, Camille Péron, Tofig Musayev, Gianluca Ferrari "Protection of Cultural Property. Military Manual." UNESCO, 2016, p 73.
  61. **^** _UNESCO Director-General calls for stronger cooperation for heritage protection at the Blue Shield International General Assembly._ UNESCO, 13 September 2017.
  62. **^** "UNESCO Legal Instruments: Second Protocol to the Hague Convention of 1954 for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict 1999".
  63. **^** Gerold Keusch "Kulturschutz in der Ära der Identitätskriege" In: Truppendienst - Magazin des Österreichischen Bundesheeres, 24 October 2018.
  64. **^** "Karl von Habsburg auf Mission im Libanon" (in German).
  65. **^** Corine Wegener, Marjan Otter: _Cultural Property at War: Protecting Heritage during Armed Conflict._ In: The Getty Conservation Institute, Newsletter 23.1, Spring 2008; Eden Stiffman: _Cultural Preservation in Disasters, War Zones. Presents Big Challenges._ In: _The Chronicle Of Philanthropy,_ 11 May 2015; Hans Haider _Missbrauch von Kulturgütern ist strafbar._ In: _Wiener Zeitung,_ 29 June 2012.
  66. **^** Shepard, Robert (August 2002). "Commodification, culture and tourism". _Tourist Studies_. **2** (2): 183–201. doi:10.1177/146879702761936653.
  67. **^** Coye, N. dir. (2011), Lascaux et la conservation en milieu souterrain : actes du symposium international (Paris, 26-27 fév. 2009) = Lascaux and Preservation Issues in Subterranean Environments: Proceedings of the International Symposium (Paris, February 26 and 27), Éditions de la Maison des sciences de l'homme, 360 p.
  68. **^** Jaafar, Mastura; Rasoolimanesh, S Mostafa; Ismail, Safura (2017). "Perceived sociocultural impacts of tourism and community participation: A case study of Langkawi Island". Tourism and Hospitality Research. 17 (2): 123–134.

## Further reading

### Books

  * Barker, C. (2004). _The Sage dictionary of cultural studies_. Sage.
  * Terrence Deacon (1997). _The Symbolic Species: The Co-evolution of Language and the Brain_. New York and London: W.W. Norton.
  * Ralph L. Holloway Jr. (1969). "Culture: A Human domain". _Current Anthropology_. **10** (4): 395–412. doi:10.1086/201036.
  * Dell Hymes (1969). _Reinventing Anthropology_.
  * James, Paul; Szeman, Imre (2010). _Globalization and Culture, Vol. 3: Global-Local Consumption_. London: Sage Publications.
  * Michael Tomasello (1999). "The Human Adaptation for Culture". _Annual Review of Anthropology_. **28** : 509–29. doi:10.1146/annurev.anthro.28.1.509.
  * Whorf, Benjamin Lee (1941). "The relation of habitual thought and behavior to language". _Language, Culture, and Personality: Essays in Honor of Edward Sapir_.
  * Walter Taylor (1948). _A Study of Archeology. Memoir 69, American Anthropological Association_. Carbondale IL: Southern Illinois University Press.
  * "Adolf Bastian", Encyclopædia Britannica Online, January 27, 2009
  * Ankerl, Guy (2000) [2000]. _Global communication without universal civilization, vol.1: Coexisting contemporary civilizations: Arabo-Muslim, Bharati, Chinese, and Western_. INU societal research. Geneva: INU Press. ISBN 978-2-88155-004-1.
  * Arnold, Matthew. 1869. _Culture and Anarchy._ New York: Macmillan. Third edition, 1882, available online. Retrieved: 2006-06-28.
  * Bakhtin, M.M. (1981) _The Dialogic Imagination: Four Essays_. Ed. Michael Holquist. Trans. Caryl Press. ISBN 978-0-252-06445-6.
  * Barzilai, Gad. 2003. _Communities and Law: Politics and Cultures of Legal Identities_ University of Michigan Press. ISBN 0-472-11315-1
  * Benedict, Ruth (1934). "Patterns of Culture". Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company. Cite journal requires `|journal=` (help)
  * Bourdieu, Pierre. 1977. _Outline of a Theory of Practice._ Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-29164-4
  * Michael C. Carhart, _The Science of Culture in Enlightenment Germany_ , Cambridge, Harvard University press, 2007.
  * Cohen, Anthony P. 1985. _The Symbolic Construction of Community._ Routledge: New York,
  * Dawkins, R. 1982. _The Extended Phenotype: The Long Reach of the Gene._ Paperback ed., 1999. Oxford Paperbacks. ISBN 978-0-19-288051-2
  * Findley & Rothney. _Twentieth-Century World_ (Houghton Mifflin, 1986)
  * Geertz, Clifford. 1973. _The Interpretation of Cultures: Selected Essays_. New York. ISBN 978-0-465-09719-7.
  * Geertz, Clifford (1957). "Ritual and Social Change: A Javanese Example". _American Anthropologist_. **59** : 32–54. doi:10.1525/aa.1957.59.1.02a00040.
  * Goodall, J. 1986. _The Chimpanzees of Gombe: Patterns of Behavior._ Cambridge, Massachusetts: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-11649-8
  * Hoult, T.F., ed. 1969. _Dictionary of Modern Sociology_. Totowa, New Jersey, United States: Littlefield, Adams & Co.
  * Jary, D. and J. Jary. 1991. _The HarperCollins Dictionary of Sociology._ New York: HarperCollins. ISBN 0-06-271543-7
  * Keiser, R. Lincoln 1969. _The Vice Lords: Warriors of the Streets_. Holt, Rinehart, and Winston. ISBN 978-0-03-080361-1.
  * Kroeber, A.L. and C. Kluckhohn, 1952. _Culture: A Critical Review of Concepts and Definitions._ Cambridge, Massachusetts: Peabody Museum
  * Kim, Uichol (2001). "Culture, science and indigenous psychologies: An integrated analysis." In D. Matsumoto (Ed.), _Handbook of culture and psychology._ Oxford: Oxford University Press
  * McClenon, James. "Tylor, Edward B(urnett)". _Encyclopedia of Religion and Society_. Ed. William Swatos and Peter Kivisto. Walnut Creek: AltaMira, 1998. 528–29.
  * Middleton, R. 1990. _Studying Popular Music_. Philadelphia: Open University Press. ISBN 978-0-335-15275-9.
  * O'Neil, D. 2006. Cultural Anthropology Tutorials, Behavioral Sciences Department, Palomar College, San Marco, California. Retrieved: 2006-07-10.
  * Reagan, Ronald. "Final Radio Address to the Nation", January 14, 1989. Retrieved June 3, 2006.
  * Reese, W.L. 1980. _Dictionary of Philosophy and Religion: Eastern and Western Thought._ New Jersey U.S., Sussex, U.K: Humanities Press.
  * Tylor, E.B. (1974) [1871]. _Primitive culture: researches into the development of mythology, philosophy, religion, art, and custom_. New York: Gordon Press. ISBN 978-0-87968-091-6.
  * UNESCO. 2002. Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, issued on International Mother Language Day, February 21, 2002. Retrieved: 2006-06-23.
  * White, L. 1949. _The Science of Culture: A study of man and civilization._ New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux.
  * Wilson, Edward O. (1998). _Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge._ Vintage: New York. ISBN 978-0-679-76867-8.
  * Wolfram, Stephen. 2002 _A New Kind of Science._ Wolfram Media, Inc. ISBN 978-1-57955-008-0

### Articles

  * The Meaning of "Culture" (2014-12-27), Joshua Rothman, _The New Yorker_

## External links

**Culture** at Wikipedia's sister projects

  * Definitions from Wiktionary
  * Media from Wikimedia Commons
  * News from Wikinews
  * Quotations from Wikiquote
  * Texts from Wikisource
  * Textbooks from Wikibooks
  * Travel guide from Wikivoyage
  * Resources from Wikiversity

  * Culture at the _Encyclopædia Britannica_
  * _Cultura: International Journal of Philosophy of Culture and Axiology_
  * What Is Culture?

  * v
  * t
  * e

Culture  
  
---  
  
Outline Outline  
  
Sciences|

  * Cultural anthropology
  * Cultural astronomy
  * Cultural ecology
  * Cultural geography
  * Cultural neuroscience
  * Cultural studies
  * Culturology
  * Culture theory
  * Security culture
  * Neuroculture

  
  
Subfields|

  * Bioculture
  * Cross-cultural studies
    * Cross-cultural communication
    * Cross-cultural leadership
    * Cross-cultural psychiatry
    * Cross-cultural psychology
  * Cultural analytics
  * Cultural economics
  * Cultural entomology
  * Cultural history
  * Cultural mapping
  * Cultural mediation
  * Cultural psychology
  * Cultural values
  * Culturomics
  * Intercultural learning
  * Intercultural relations
  * Internet culture
  * Philosophy of culture
  * Popular culture studies
  * Postcritique
  * Semiotics of culture
  * Sociology of culture
  * Sound culture
  * Theology of culture
  * Transcultural nursing

  
  
Types|

  * Constructed culture
  * Dominant culture
  * Folk culture
  * High culture
  * Individualistic culture
  * Legal culture
  * Low culture
  * Microculture
  * Official culture
  * Political culture
    * Civic
  * Popular culture
    * Urban
  * Primitive culture
  * Subculture
    * Alternative culture
    * list
  * Super culture
  * Vernacular culture
  * Culture by location

  
  
Aspects|

  * Acculturation
  * Cultural appropriation
  * Cultural area
  * Cultural artifact
  * Cultural baggage
  * Cultural behavior
  * Cultural bias
  * Cultural capital
    * Cross-cultural
  * Cultural communication
  * Cultural conflict
  * Cultural cringe
  * Cultural dissonance
  * Cultural emphasis
  * Cultural framework
  * Cultural heritage
  * Cultural icon
  * Cultural identity
  * Cultural industry
  * Cultural invention
  * Cultural landscape
  * Cultural learning
  * Cultural leveling
  * Cultural memory
  * Cultural pluralism
  * Cultural practice
  * Cultural property
  * Cultural reproduction
  * Cultural system
  * Cultural technology
  * Cultural universal
  * Cultureme
  * Enculturation
  * High- and low-context cultures
  * Interculturality
  * Manuscript culture
  * Material culture
  * Non-material culture
  * Organizational culture
  * Print culture
  * Protoculture
  * Safety culture
  * Technoculture
  * Trans-cultural diffusion
  * Transculturation
  * Visual culture

  
  
Politics|

  * Colonial mentality
  * Consumer capitalism
  * Cross cultural sensitivity
  * Cultural assimilation
  * Cultural attaché
  * Cultural backwardness
  * Cultural Bolshevism
  * Cultural conservatism
  * Cultural contracts
  * Cultural deprivation
  * Cultural diplomacy
  * Cultural environmentalism
  * Cultural exception
  * Cultural feminism
  * Cultural genocide
  * Cultural globalization
  * Cultural hegemony
  * Cultural imperialism
  * Cultural intelligence
  * Cultural liberalism
  * Cultural nationalism
  * Cultural pessimism
  * Cultural policy
  * Cultural racism
  * Cultural radicalism
  * Cultural retention
  * Cultural Revolution
  * Cultural rights
  * Cultural safety
  * Cultural silence
  * Cultural subsidy
  * Cultural Zionism
  * Culture change
  * Culture minister
  * Culture of fear
  * Culture war
  * Deculturalization
  * Dominator culture
  * Interculturalism
  * Monoculturalism
  * Multiculturalism
    * Biculturalism
  * Pluriculturalism
  * Polyculturalism
  * Transculturism

  
  
Religions|

  * Buddhism
  * Christianity
    * Catholicism
      * Cultural Catholic
    * Cultural Christian
    * Protestantism
    * Role of Christianity in civilization
    * Eastern Orthodoxy
    * Mormonism
  * Cultural Hindu
  * Islam
    * Cultural Muslim
  * Judaism
    * Cultural Judaism
  * Sikhism

  
  
Related|

  * Animal culture
  * Archaeological culture
  * Bennett scale
  * Cannabis culture
  * Circuit of culture
  * Civilization
  * Coffee culture
  * Cross-cultural
  * Cultural center
  * Cultural competence
  * Cultural critic
  * Cultural determinism
  * Cultural diversity
  * Cultural encoding
  * Cultural evolutionism
  * Cultural homogenization
  * Cultural institution
  * Cultural jet lag
  * Cultural lag
  * Cultural literacy
  * Cultural mosaic
  * Cultural movement
  * Cultural mulatto
  * Cultural probe
  * Cultural relativism
  * Culture speculation
  * Cultural tourism
    * Pop-culture
  * Cultural translation
  * Cultural turn
  * Cultural sensibility
  * Culture and menstruation
  * Culture and positive psychology
  * Culture and social cognition
  * Culture gap
  * Culture hero
  * Culture industry
  * Culture shock
  * Culturgen
  * Children's culture
  * Culturalism
  * Cyberculture
  * Death and culture
  * Disability culture
    * Deaf culture
  * Emotions and culture
  * Intercultural communication
  * Intercultural competence
  * Languaculture
  * Living things in culture
  * Media culture
  * Oppositional culture
  * Participatory culture
  * Permission culture
  * Rape culture
  * Remix culture
  * Tea culture
  * Transformation of culture
  * Urban culture
  * Welfare culture
  * Western culture

  
  
  * Category **Category**
  * Commons page **Commons**
  * WikiProject **WikiProject**
  * **Changes**

  
  
Authority control Edit this at Wikidata|

  * BNF: cb11931827z (data)
  * GND: 4125698-0
  * LCCN: sh85034755
  * NARA: 10640511
  * NDL: 00560998

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Culture&oldid=997984135"

Categories:

  * Culture
  * Social concepts
  * Social constructionism
  * Main topic articles

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 French-language sources (fr)
  * Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from January 2018
  * CS1 errors: missing periodical
  * CS1 maint: uses authors parameter
  * CS1 German-language sources (de)
  * Articles with short description
  * Short description is different from Wikidata
  * Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages
  * Use mdy dates from July 2015
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from October 2016
  * Articles with unsourced statements from April 2012
  * Articles with unsourced statements from July 2018
  * Articles with unsourced statements from July 2009
  * Pages using Sister project links with wikidata mismatch
  * Pages using Sister project links with default search
  * Articles with Encyclopædia Britannica links
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with NARA identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers

## Navigation menu

###  Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

###  Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

###  Views

  * Read
  * View source
  * View history

###  More

###  Search

###  Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * About Wikipedia
  * Contact us
  * Donate

###  Contribute

  * Help
  * Learn to edit
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Upload file

###  Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Cite this page
  * Wikidata item

###  Print/export

  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

###  In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikiquote
  * Wikivoyage

###  Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * Alemannisch
  * አማርኛ
  * العربية
  * Aragonés
  * ܐܪܡܝܐ
  * অসমীয়া
  * Asturianu
  * Avañe'ẽ
  * Aymar aru
  * Azərbaycanca
  * বাংলা
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Basa Banyumasan
  * Башҡортса
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * भोजपुरी
  * Български
  * Boarisch
  * བོད་ཡིག
  * Bosanski
  * Brezhoneg
  * Буряад
  * Català
  * Чӑвашла
  * Cebuano
  * Čeština
  * Chamoru
  * ChiShona
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * ދިވެހިބަސް
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Emiliàn e rumagnòl
  * Эрзянь
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Estremeñu
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Fiji Hindi
  * Français
  * Frysk
  * Furlan
  * Gaeilge
  * Gaelg
  * Galego
  * 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
  * 한국어
  * Hausa
  * Hawaiʻi
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Ido
  * Ilokano
  * বিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরী
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Interlingua
  * Interlingue
  * Ирон
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Jawa
  * Kalaallisut
  * ಕನ್ನಡ
  * Къарачай-малкъар
  * ქართული
  * कॉशुर / کٲشُر
  * Kaszëbsczi
  * Қазақша
  * Kiswahili
  * Kreyòl ayisyen
  * Kriyòl gwiyannen
  * Kurdî
  * Кыргызча
  * Ladin
  * Ladino
  * ລາວ
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lëtzebuergesch
  * Lietuvių
  * Limburgs
  * Lingua Franca Nova
  * Livvinkarjala
  * La .lojban.
  * Luganda
  * Magyar
  * Македонски
  * Malagasy
  * മലയാളം
  * Malti
  * मराठी
  * მარგალური
  * مصرى
  * مازِرونی
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Minangkabau
  * Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄
  * Mirandés
  * Монгол
  * မြန်မာဘာသာ
  * Nāhuatl
  * Nederlands
  * Nedersaksies
  * नेपाली
  * नेपाल भाषा
  * 日本語
  * Napulitano
  * Nordfriisk
  * Norsk bokmål
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Novial
  * Occitan
  * Олык марий
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * Pälzisch
  * پنجابی
  * Papiamentu
  * پښتو
  * Patois
  * ភាសាខ្មែរ
  * Plattdüütsch
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Runa Simi
  * Русиньскый
  * Русский
  * Саха тыла
  * Sakizaya
  * Scots
  * Seeltersk
  * Shqip
  * Sicilianu
  * සිංහල
  * Simple English
  * سنڌي
  * SiSwati
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * Soomaaliga
  * کوردی
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Sunda
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Тоҷикӣ
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * Vahcuengh
  * Vèneto
  * Vepsän kel’
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Volapük
  * Võro
  * Walon
  * Winaray
  * 吴语
  * Xitsonga
  * ייִדיש
  * Yorùbá
  * 粵語
  * Zeêuws
  * Žemaitėška
  * 中文
  * Madhurâ

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 3 January 2021, at 05:20 (UTC).
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Mobile view
  * Developers
  * Statistics
  * Cookie statement

  * Wikimedia Foundation
  * Powered by MediaWiki

  *[v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[e]: Edit this template

